so mr. wonderful shark tank let's play a
little role reversal here I'll be the
shark and you absolutely I'm ready that
you be the young man pitching business
tell me about Oh shares how did it get
created what are the rules behind it
this new etf business you've launched
getting some buzz well thank you I am
it's a solution for me personally for my
family trust you know I I have been a
big fan of using ETFs and I thought it
could be in a trust situation very good
my mandates very simple in 97 after I
sold the learning company I created a
series of trusts to do a few things
within my family when I was young my
mother decided to cut me off after I
finished education I didn't believe she
would do it but she did she had this
little philosophy she said that the dead
bird under the nest is the one that
never learned how to fly and I get what
she meant now because that's what
happened she said you got to go make
your own fortune and you know if you can
do it so what I decided is to structure
trust to do this they basically provide
for children from birth the last day of
education and then they get nothing
after that but they all it also takes
care of their issue when they have
children it'll take care of that birth
to the end of education so it's got to
be multi-generational so this trust in
97 was structured so in 51 percent or 50
percent equity 50 percent fixed income
with the equity side I used to use
active managers and this has been around
decades now and what I would find
there's nothing wrong with them is some
great managers out there and I've used
many but style drift creeps in and so I
have fun from time to time have to make
changes what happens when I'm gone
that's what I'm worried about when I'm
not here to do that that's when I
started looking at ETFs because ETFs are
rule-based
indices there is no style drift and so
my covenants are very simple my trust
has to pay a 5% and I'm telling you this
because the creation of a shares was to
solve this problem and I'm telling you
about every year I got a pal five
percent I learned years ago and this is
just a fascinating you know one of the
things in life that just comes from
a unique experience my mother used to
take 1/3 of her paycheck and put it into
large captive and paying stocks and
corporate credit back in the early 60s
and when she died this portfolio too
existed for 50 years as an executive
first time I got to look at it she'd
hidden it from both of her husband's it
was amazing if dividend-paying stocks
and corporate credits over 50 years you
can't find it it exhibits that and so
when I started to do some research I
found out one interesting fact that
changed my investment philosophy forever
over the last 40 years 51 per sources
sorry over the last 40 years 71% of the
market returns came from dividends not
capital appreciation so rule one for me
is I'll never own a stuff that doesn't
pay a dividend ever number two
diversification really matters so I
never want oh more than 5% in any one
name and you know that really works when
you go through periods like Oh 809 we
have volatility in sectors in number
three when you start to look at capital
from multi generations you want
preservation so I thought I'd go to the
ETF market to solve for it and I found
out something very interesting that I
think others have found out recently as
well the first generation of ETFs are
market cap weighted indices so over time
when companies grow their market cap
that becoming an ordinal large piece of
the index if I have a covenant a 5%
market cap weight in any one name most
of these ETFs I can use because you get
four or five names represent 40 50 60 %
of the index so I went to Kerr the
footsie russell guys and said look my
rules are simple can you give me a new
index that meets my 5% market cap
weighting 20% in sector but above all
lower vol and I want 50% more yield from
the index in the generic index can you
design something like that for
I've a fair amount of capital put to
work I thought that these rules would be
of interest to other investors that was
the genesis of Oh shares we created
something new for the ETF market it's a
new generation you know one of the
things you're speaking about is
preservation of capital companies that
pay dividends so much excitement and
buzz around the stock market during
periods like we've been in for the past
few years goes to the other side of
things they're really hot stocks the
things that run up by crazy amounts this
sounds to me like your strategy is going
to avoid the distraction of worrying
about when the ubers of the world will
come public and how Facebook stock is
doing you're in a very kind of you know
you know your corner and you're sticking
to it and it's been successful for you
in the past so that's why you're
continuing with it right yeah I think
there's other reasons too you know if
you look at the volatility in the market
around names that don't pay dividends
they're extremely volatile because
there's no cushion of yield what's
what's the value of a stock that never
returns capital to its shareholders I
don't know because the only way you can
make money is if somebody else is
willing to buy that position at a higher
price for some emotional reason perhaps
or for some you know foresight that
maybe the company will return capital
one day and I think of it you know what
when you learn as an investor over
multiple decades is the only thing that
matters is free cash flow that's it
there is no other reason to own a stock
and with that philosophy it brings you
into a place where you focus on a
company's ability to generate
incremental cash flow because just
owning a dividend paying stock is not
good enough because you know let's say
we find a stock today that's paying a
three percent dividend yield and
tomorrow because it's forecast for sales
get cut in half the stock drops on 50
percent now it's yielding six percent I
don't want to own that stock either so
my tests in this index that I've you
know created with let's see Russell
looks at the balance sheet every year we
test to make sure that the company is
viable in its ability to generate cash
this is extreme
conservative investing this is for the
long haul
these tools are not for as you're
suggesting for spicy you know the hot
stock does your I've done that I've been
there you know let the young legs do I
have zero interest in that I don't care
what the hot new stock is you know when
a company comes public I won't own it
either it's got to prove to me over
multiple years that it can continue to
generate cash before it even fits in to
what I'm doing so I'm really boring and
I like it that way so a great company
doesn't necessarily have to equal a
great stock they can be two very
different things from your perspective
there's many companies where I buy their
products and services I would never
touch their stock so you know it's sort
of we're talking about real money here
the stuff that you need to preserve you
know when I think about my family trust
I can't afford to mess around with that
I'm guessing it came from your mother
but what would you say was the best
piece of financial advice or business
advice you ever got in your long lengthy
career when I was seven and my brother
was five she take us to the bank with
her you know to because that's where you
would buy bonds back in those days you
could actually buy the certificate with
the coupons every six months you clip
them off she'd say to his boys never
spend the principal only the interest I
had no idea what she was talking about
that's all I do today in my world you
never touch a principal you adjust your
spending habits your gifts to charities
your use of capital based on how much
you can generate from your portfolio I
view my portfolio and my trust and my
positions as a chicken on a spit
dripping cash everything has to generate
yield whether it's a fixed income
position or in equity it has to it the
only reason it can be in my world is
generating capital back to me I take
that I disperse it the family lives off
that the charities I've committed to so
I'm always looking for a company that
can help me with my problem of
generating more yield everything that I
mean I can't even imagine by missed
doesn't pay a difference why would you
do that what would it be the reason you
would do that I don't get it so to me
that means about 28% of the market to me
is just speculation a stuff that doesn't
pay a dividend is a speculation it's not
an investment